feat: integrate new loss and pooling options (#664)
jina-ai/finetuner: docs/advanced-topics/advanced-losses-optimizers-and-poolers.md

(advanced-losses-optimizers-poolers)=
# {octicon}`mortar-board` Advanced Losses, Optimizers and Poolers

> Many of the models supported by Finetuner make use of similar methods throughout finetuning, such as the methods used for *calculating loss*, *sampling* and *pooling* . Finetuner offers alternatives to each of these methods, which can improve the performance of your finetuning run in some cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of the models supported by Finetuner use of similar methods during finetuning, like methods for *calculating loss*, *sampling* and *pooling* . Finetuner offers alternative methods for each of these tasks, and in some cases, choosing specific methods can improve Finetuner performance..
```

> ## Loss Functions

Reviewer 2: Make the casing in the headlines consistent with the rest of the documentation

> Loss functions are used to calculate the quality of embeddings while training; the higher the output of the loss function, the more the parameters of the model will be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loss functions are used to calculate the quality of embeddings while training: The higher the output of the loss function, the larger the update to the parameters of the model.
```

I presume this is what you mean by "more updated": That the parameter change will be larger when the loss function output is larger.

> By default we use `TripletMarginLoss`, however we support many other loss function as well, including `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default we use `TripletMarginLoss`, however we support many other loss functions as well, including `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss`.
```

```{Important}
Please check the [developer reference](../../api/finetuner/#finetuner.fit) to get the available options for `loss`.
```

### TripletMarginLoss

Let's first take a look at our default loss function, `TripletMarginLoss`.  

> `TripletMarginLoss` is a *contrastive* loss function, meaning that the loss is calculated by comparing the embeddings of multiple documents to each other, three documents, to be exact.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`TripletMarginLoss` is a *contrastive* loss function, meaning that the loss is calculated by comparing the embeddings of multiple (3 to be exact) documents to each other.
```

Each triplet of documents consists of an anchor document, a positive document and a negative document.
The anchor and the positive document belong to the same class, and the negative document belongs to a different class.
The goal of `TripletMarginLoss` is to maximise the difference between the distance from the anchor to the positive document, and the distance from the anchor to the negative document.
For a more detailed explanation on Triplet Loss, as well as how samples are gathered to create these triplets, see {doc}`/advanced_topics/negative-mining`.

### SphereFace losses

> SphereFace loss is a loss function that was first formulated for computer vision and face recognition tasks,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SphereFace loss is a loss function that was first formulated for computer vision and face recognition tasks.
```

Finetuner supports two variations of this loss function, `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss`.

> Instead of attempting to minimise the distance between positive pairs and maximise the distance between negative pairs, the SphereFace loss functions compare each sample with the center of each class

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Instead of attempting to minimise the distance between positive pairs and maximise the distance between negative pairs, the SphereFace loss functions compare each sample with the center of each class
```

I think here it is confusing what is the center of a class ?

In practice this is not really center but more estimated prototypes which is learn alongside the representation in the last linear softmax layer. Not sure how to put it in nice word so I let you the burden

Author: I have changed it to '...with an estimate of the center point of each classes' embeddings.'
I don't want to go into too much detail explaining it but i think this is more accurate

> and attempt to minimize the *angular distance* between the document and its class centroid, and maximise the angular distance between the document and the centroids of the other classes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and attempts to minimize the *angular distance* between the document and its class centroid, and maximise the angular distance between the document and the centroids of the other classes.
```

![training](../imgs/SphereFace-training.png)

> The `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss` both deviate from the traditional SphereFace loss by including a margin and scaling parameter, which can be used to increase the boundary between each class. If an item's embedding is within the boundary of the class it belongs to, then no loss is incurred. Choosing appropriate values for the margin and scaling parameter is important for effective training, for more information on how `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss` calculate loss, and how these parameters affect the output, see this article on [loss metrics for deep learning](https://hav4ik.github.io/articles/deep-metric-learning-survey#cosface).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss` both deviate from the traditional SphereFace loss by including a margin and scaling parameter, which can be used to increase the boundary between each class. If an item's embedding is within the boundary of the class it belongs to, then no loss is incurred. Choosing appropriate values for the margin and scaling parameter is very important for effective training. For more information on how `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss` calculate loss, and how these parameters affect the output, see this article on [loss metrics for deep learning](https://hav4ik.github.io/articles/deep-metric-learning-survey#cosface).  
```

> `TripletMarginLoss` uses a `ClassSampler` to construct batches an equal amount of each class in the batch. However, Since only one sample is needed to calculate the loss with the `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss` functions, there are no constraints on what each batch needs to contain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`TripletMarginLoss` uses a `ClassSampler` to construct batches with an equal number of samples of each class in the batch. However, since only one sample is needed to calculate the loss with the `ArcFaceLoss` and `CosFaceLoss` functions, there are no constraints on what each batch needs to contain.
```

> Therefore we can instead construct batches using random sampling, a much simpler method which consequently takes less time to construct a batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore we can construct batches using random sampling, which is much simpler method and less time consuming.
```

By default, runs created using `ArcFaceLoss` or `CosfaceLoss` will use random sampling, however you can specify which type of sampling method you would like to use like so:

```diff
run = finetuner.fit(
    ...,
    loss='ArcFaceLoss',
+   sampler='random'      # use random sampling
+   sampler='class'       # use class sampling
+   sampler='auto'        # infer sampling method based on the loss function (default)

)
```

Since `TripletMarginLoss` needs a class sampler to properly function, this `sampler` parameter is ignored when `loss='TripletMarginLoss'`.

> 

Reviewer 2: If this paragraph should really be about the loss functions in general, we should also mention the `CLIPLoss` function somewhere

### Using an Optimizer

In order to keep track of the class centers across batches, these SphereFace loss functions require an additional optimizer during training.
By default, the type of optimizer used will be the same as the one used for the model itself, but you can also choose a different optimizer for your loss function using the `loss_optimizer` parameter.
The list of available optimizers are discussed in the [run job](../walkthrough/run-job.md) section.

```diff
run = finetuner.fit(
    ...,
    loss='ArcFaceLoss',
+   loss_optimizer='Adam',
+   loss_optimizer_options={'weight_decay': 0.01}
)
```

> ### Comparing with `TripletMarginLoss`

Reviewer 2: maybe remove the quotes in the headline. It looks a bit strange, and you also don't do it consistently, but only here
